[Rank]
S. Augustini Episcopi Confessoris;;Duplex;;3;;vide C4

[RankNewcal]
S. Augustini Episcopi Confessoris;;Duplex optional;;2;;vide C4

[Rule]
vide C4;mtv
9 lectiones

[Oratio]
O God, Who didst give blessed Augustine to the English people, to be their first teacher, grant unto us, we beseech thee, that as we do proclaim his praise on earth, so we may feel his prayers in heaven.
$Per Dominum

[Lectio4]
Augustine, the first Archbishop of Canterbury, and the Apostle of the English, was sent into England by blessed Gregory, and came thither in the year 597. At that time there was in Kent a most mighty king named Ethelbert, whose power~
reached even to the Humber. When this King had heard wherefore the holy man was come, he received him kindly, and bade him and his companions, who were all monks, to come to his own capital city of Canterbury being struck with astonishment at the perfect blamelessness of their lives, and the power of the heavenly doctrine which they preached, and which God confirmed with signs following.

[Lectio5]
They drew nigh to the city in solemn procession, singing the Litany, and bearing before them for their standard a silver cross and a picture of the Lord our Saviour painted on a panel. Hard by the city, upon the east side, there was a Church builded of old time in honour of St Martin, and wherein the Queen, who was a Christian, was used to pray. There they first began to meet together, to sing, to pray, to celebrate Masses, to preach, and to baptize, until the King was turned to the faith, and the most part of his people were led by his example, (but not his authority,) to take the name of Christian, for he had learnt from his teachers and his own soul's physicians, that men are to be drawn, and not driven to heaven. And now Augustine, being ordained Archbishop of the English and of Britain, lest he should leave untravailed any part of the Lord's vineyard, asked from the Apostolic See a new band of labourers, Mellitus," Justus, Paulinus, and Rufinian.

[Lectio6].
To them Gregory sent hallowed vessels, Altar-cloths, Church vestments, and also reliques of the holy Apostles and Martyrs. He instructed them to turn the temples of the idols into places of Christian worship, by sprinkling them with hallowed water, building altars in them, and putting reliques therein. The Britons who, nearly an hundred and fifty years before, had been thrust into the uttermost parts of the island, had some Bishops, whom Augustine vehemently urged to lay aside their error concerning the keeping of Easter, and to labour along with him for the conversion of the English, but they left it all to him. He toiled much for the saving of souls. He was illustrious for miracles, but more illustrious for his life. He made Mellitus Bishop of London, and Justus Bishop of Rochester, and named Lawrence to succeed himself at Canterbury, and then finished his work in peace, and passed away to that life which is a life of perfect blessedness, upon the 26th day of May, (in the year of our Lord 604,) in the reign of Ethelbert.

[Lectio7]
From the Holy Gospel according to Luke
!Luke 10:1-9
At that time The Lord appointed other seventy - two also, and sent them two and two before His face into every city and place, whither He Himself would come. And so on.
_
Homily by Pope St Gregory (the Great.)
!Homilia 17th on the Gospels.
Dearly beloved brethren, our Lord and Saviour doth sometimes admonish us by words, and sometimes by works. Yea, His very works do themselves teach us for that which He doth silently His example still moveth us to copy. Behold how He sendeth forth His disciples to preach by two and two since there are two commandments to love, that is, a commandment to love God, and a commandment to love our neighbour and where there are not two, the one, being alone, hath not whereon to do the Lord's commandment. And no man can properly be said to love himself: for love tendeth outward toward our neighbour, if it be thelove whereto the Gospel doth oblige us.

[Lectio8]
Behold, the Lord sendeth forth His disciples to preach by two and two and thus doing, He doth silently teach us that whosoever loveth not his neighbour, such~
an one it behoveth not to take upon him the office of a preacher. Well also is it said that He sent them before His face into every city and place whither He Himself would come. The Lord followeth His preachers first cometh preaching, and then the Lord Himself cometh to the house of our mind, whither the word of exhortation hath come before and so cometh the truth into our mind.

[Lectio9]
Therefore to preachers saith Isaiah " Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight an highway for our God." (xl. 3.) And again the Psalmist saith " Spread a path before Him That rideth upon the West." (lxvii. 4.) The Lord rideth upon the West above that from which in death He veiled His glory hath He royally exalted that glory that excelleth, even the glory of His rising again. He rideth upon the West, Who, being risen again from the dead, is throned high above the death to which He bowed. Before Him, therefore, That rideth upon the West, we spread a path, when we set forth His glory before the eyes of your mind, to the end that He Himself may come after, and Himself enlighten the same your minds by His presence and His love.
&teDeum

[Lectio94]
Augustine, a monk of the Lateran monastery in Rome, was sent by Gregory the Great in 597 to England with about forty monks as his companions. They were invited by King Ethelbert to Canterbury, the chief city of the kingdom, and they built an oratory nearby. Through preaching the doctrine of heaven, Augustine brought many of the islanders and the king himself to the Christian faith, to the great joy of the king's wife, Bertha, who was a Christian. By order of Pope Gregory, Augustine was ordained bishop and founded the see of Canterbury ; by the same Pontiff he was granted the use of the pallium and the right to organize the hierarchy of England. At length, after suffering great hardships for Christ, having set Mellitus over the Church of London, Justus over that of Rochester, and Lawrence over his own Church, he made his journey to heaven on the 26th day of May. He was buried in the monastery of St. Peter, which then became the burial place of bishops of Canterbury and of several kings.
&teDeum
