[Rank]
Die VI Infra Octavam S. Joseph;;Semiduplex;;2;;vide Tempora/Pasc2-3

[Rule]
vide Tempora/Pasc2-3
9 lectiones

[Lectio1]
Olvasmány a Jelenések könyvébõl
!Rev 2:1-7
1 "Az efezusi egyház angyalának ezt írd: Aki a hét csillagot jobbjában tartja, s aki a hét arany gyertyatartó közt jár, a következõket mondja: 
2 Tudok tetteidrõl, fáradozásaidról és kitartásodról. Tudom, hogy nem tûröd a gonoszokat: próbára tetted, akik apostolnak mondják magukat, noha nem azok, és hazugnak találtad õket. 
3 Hûséges is vagy, szenvedtél a nevemért, és nem fáradtál bele. 
4 De van egy kifogásom ellened, az, hogy kezdeti szeretetedtõl eltértél. 
5 Gondold meg, honnan süllyedtél ide! Térj meg, és térj vissza korábbi cselekedeteidhez! Mert elmegyek és elmozdítom helyérõl gyertyatartódat, ha nem tartasz bûnbánatot. 
6 Azt viszont, hogy gyûlölöd a nikolaiták tetteit, a javadra lehet írni - én is gyûlölöm õket. 
7 Akinek van füle, hallja meg, mit mond a Lélek az egyházaknak: A gyõztesnek az élet fájáról adok enni, amely az Isten paradicsomában van." 

[Responsory1]
R. I saw the gate of the city, which looketh toward the East, and written! thereon the names of the (Twelve) Apostles and of the Lamb.
* And upon the walls thereof a guard of Angels. alleluia.
V. I saw a new heaven and a new earth coming down out of heaven.
R. And upon the walls thereof a guard of Angels. Alleluia.

[Lectio2]
!Rev 2:8-11
8 "A szmirnai egyház angyalának ezt írd: Ezt mondja az elsõ és utolsó, aki halott volt, de életre kelt: 
9 Tudok szorongattatásodról, arról, hogy szegény vagy, de valójában mégis gazdag. Tudom, hogy gyaláznak, akik zsidónak vallják magukat, noha nem azok, hanem a sátán zsinagógája. 
10 Ne félj a rád váró szenvedésektõl! A sátán néhányotokat fogságba vet, hogy próbára tegyen benneteket. Megpróbáltatásotok tíz napig tart. Légy hû mindhalálig, és neked adom az élet koszorúját. 
11 Akinek van füle, hallja meg, mit mond a Lélek az egyházaknak: A gyõztesen nem vesz erõt a második halál." 

[Responsory2]
R. The Angel showed me the fountain of the water of life and he said unto me, Alleluia.
* Here worship God. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
V. When I had heard and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the Angel, which showed me these things, and he said unto me
R. Here worship God. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Here worship God. Alleluia, Alleluia, Alleluia.

[Lectio3]
!Rev 2:12-17
12 "A pergamoni egyház angyalának ezt írd: Ezt mondja, aki a kétélû hegyes kardot tartja: 
13 Tudom, hol lakol; ott, ahol a sátán trónja áll. Ragaszkodol a nevemhez, nem tagadtad meg hitemet még azokban a napokban sem, amikor Antipászt, hûséges vértanúmat megölték nálatok, ahol a sátán lakik. 
14 De van némi kifogásom ellened. Élnek köztetek olyanok, akik Bileám tanításához ragaszkodnak, aki kioktatta Bálákot, hogy áldozati hús evésére és erkölcstelenségre csábítsa Izrael fiait. 
15 Olyanok is élnek köztetek, akik a nikolaiták tanításához ragaszkodnak. 
16 Térj meg tehát! Mert ha nem, késedelem nélkül odamegyek, és harcba szállok velük, számnak kardjával. 
17 Akinek van füle, hallja meg, mit mond a Lélek az egyházaknak: A gyõztesnek rejtett mannát adok és egy fehér követ. A kövön új név van, amelyet senki más nem ért, csak aki megkapja." 

[Responsory3]
R. And I heard a voice from heaven, as the noise of many waters and as the voice of great thunder, alleluia: the Lord shall reign for ever, alleluia:
* Now is come salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ, alleluia, alleluia.
V. And a voice came out from the throne, saying: Give praise to our God, all ye his servants: and you that fear him, little and great.
R. Now is come salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ, alleluia, alleluia.
&Gloria
R. Now is come salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ, alleluia, alleluia.

[Lectio4]
From a Sermon by St. Bernard the Abbot
!Homilía 2 super Missus est
Mary was espoused to Joseph, or rather, as saith the Evangelist Luke : To a man whose name was Joseph.  He is called a man, not because he was her husband, but because he was a person of manliness.  And again, the same is said by the Evangelist Matthew, to wit : Joseph the husband of Mary : and : Joseph her man : for he rightly calleth Joseph by this title of manliness, for so Joseph was expected to be, that his virtuous manhood might be given in marriage to Mary.  And we must conclude that he is here called what he was, a man ; and further, that he was called her man because it was necessary that he should be publickly accepted as her man.  And likewise, he was found worthy to be called the father of the Saviour, not that he was, but that he was publickly accepted as such, as the Evangelist himself saith : And Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, being (as it was supposed) the son of Joseph.

[Lectio5]
Without doubt, good and faithful was this Joseph who espoused the Mother of the Saviour.  Yea, I say unto you, he is that faithful and wise servant whom the Lord hath made ruler over his household.  For the Lord appointed him to be the comfort of his Mother, the keeper of his own body, and, in a word, his chief and most trusty helper on earth in the carrying out the eternal counsels.  Add to this that he is said to have been of the house of David, as he verily was.  For this Joseph was a true son of a race of kings, noble in descent, nobler yet in mind.  A true son of David, not so much according to the flesh as in faith, holiness, and devotion.  Whom, like another David, the Lord found to be a man after his own heart, to whom he therefore safely entrusted the most hold and hidden secret of his heart.  To whom also, like another David, he shewed the uncertain and hidden things of his wisdom, and granted that he should not be ignorant of a mystery which was known to none of the princes of this world.

[Lectio6]
Lastly, there was given to him not only to see and hear, him whom many kings desired to see yet saw not, and to hear yet heard not, but even to carry him in his arms, to kiss him with his lips, to clothe him and to guard him.  We must believe that Mary too, like Joseph, was descended from the house of David.  For she would not have been espoused to a man of the house of David, if she had not herself been of the house of David.  Both therefore were of the house of David.  But in Mary the truth, which the Lord had sworn to David, was fulfilled ; whereas to Joseph it was therefore given to know and bear witness unto the fulfilment of the promise.

[Lectio7]
Evangélium szent Lukács Evangélista kõnyvébõl
!Luke 3:21-23
At that time : When all the people were baptized, it came to pass, that Jesus also being baptized and praying, the heaven was opened.  And so on, and that which followeth.
_
A Homily by St. Ambrose the Bishop
!Expositio in Luc. lib. 3
That Matthew should trace the lineage of Christ through Solomon, and Luke through Nathan, would seem to indicate that the one desireth to shew the royalty of Christ's descent, and the other the priestliness thereof.  We need not infer from this that one is more accurate than the other.  On the contrary, each agreeth with the other, with an equal good faith and veracity.  For he was indeed, according to the flesh, of both a royal and a priestly family, a King sprung from kings, a Priest from priests.  But the voice from heaven is speaking of divine things rather than of human.  So then, as it is written : The King shall rejoice in God : that is, in God's strength, from which come to him the judgments of his royal Father ; and likewise, he is that Priest of whom it is written : Thou art a Priest for ever after the order of Melchisedech.

[Lectio8]
Therefore both Evangelists keep well within the truth.  For Matthew doth establish descent through the kings ; whereas Luke, by tracing through the priests the lineage transmitted to Christ from God, manifesteth his more sacred origin.  And from this we perceive the significance of the symbol used for this Evangelist ; namely, the sacrifícial calf , for everywhere he bringeth forward the mystery of the sacrifícial priesthood.  Nor need it surprise us that Luke giveth many more generations from Abraham to Christ than doth Matthew, since we can recognize that the line of descent is led through different persons.  It may be that some lived long lives, whilst persons of the other line died young.  For we are used to seeing many old men living with their grandchildren, and others dying soon after the birth of their children.

[Lectio9]
We notice also a further difference.  Saint Matthew saith that Jacob, the son of Matthan, was the father of Joseph.  Whereas Luke saith that Joseph, to whom Mary was espoused, was the son of Heli, and that Heli was the son of Matthat.  How then could Joseph have had two fathers, that is Heli and Jacob?  Perchance he is called the son of two men, because one was his father according to nature, whereas the other became his father according to the Law.  The particulars of the Law regarding the raising up of seed to a dead brother were not understood by the Jewish people as a promise to us that the seed of the dead should be perpetuated for ever.  But in so far as they read it only according to the letter, they failed to grasp its revelation of spiritual truth.  For the living brother that raised up seed unto his dead brother, is not to be considered a brother after the flesh, but only according to the purity of his motives.  And on that account, perchance we read : But no man may deliver his brother, nor make agreement unto God for him (for it cost more to redeem their souls, so that he must let that alone for ever): yea, though he live long, and see not the grave.  For the man Christ Jesus was not our natural brother, but the Mediator between God and man, whereby he hath engendered in us the grace of the resurrection unto perpetual life.
&teDeum
